#Module 13: Maintaining and Monitoring Web Solutions in Azure



#Lab: Deploying the Events Web Application to Azure




###Scenario



Now that you have completed majority of the development of the Contoso
Events web application, it is time to start planning for the production
 rollout. As part of the IT administration process, you need to document
 the steps that are required to publish applications to Azure. To support 
this goal, you need to deploy the Administration private web application
 and Events public web application to your Azure account.



###Objectives



After you complete this lab, you will be able to:



Modify Web.config transformation files.



Deploy a cloud service project to Azure.



Deploy an ASP.NET Web Application project to Azure Websites.



View streaming logs for an Azure Website.



###Lab Setup

Estimated Time: 60 minutes



Before starting this lab, you must complete the lab in Module 2. For the
 lab in this module, you will use the available host machine. Also, you
 must complete the following steps:



1.  On the host computer, click **Start**, type **Remote**, and then
 click **Remote Desktop Connection**.


In Remote Desktop Connection, provide the name of your virtual machine
in the **Computer** box by using the following format:



**vm20532[*Your Name Here*].cloudapp.net:[*Your VM RDP Port*]**



>  **Note:** The name and port for your virtual
 machine might be saved in the Computer drop-down list. If this is the
 case, use this value instead of typing it in manually. If you are
 unsure about your virtual machine’s RDP port, use either of the Azure
 portals to find your virtual machine’s endpoints. The endpoint with
 the name **Remote Desktop** is the correct port for RDP. This port is
 randomized to protect your virtual machine from unauthorized
 access.** **

In Remote Desktop Connection, click **Connect**. Wait until the RDP
client accesses the virtual machine.



If necessary, sign in by using the following credentials:



>  User name: **Student**

>  Password: **AzurePa\$\$w0rd**



Verify that you received the credentials to sign in to the Azure portal
from your training provider. You will use these credentials and the
 Azure account throughout the labs in this course.



##Exercise 1:	Creating the Target Azure Service for Deployment



###Scenario



In this exercise, you will:



Create a SQL Database instance.


Create a Service Bus instance.


Create a storage account.


Determine the connection strings for your Azure services.



The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:



1.	Sign in to the Azure Preview Portal.


2.	Create a SQL Database instance.


3.	Create a Storage instance.


4.	Switch to the Azure Management Portal.


5.	Create a Service Bus namespace.



####Task 1:	Sign in to the Azure Preview Portal



Sign in to the Azure Preview Portal (<https://portal.azure.com>).



####Task 2:	Create a SQL Database instance



1.  View the list of SQL database for your subscription.



Create a **SQL database** by using the following details:



>  Name: **dp20532[*Your Name Here*]**

>
  Edition: **Basic**

>
  Server Name: **sp20532[*Your Name Here*]**

>
  Server Admin Login: **testuser**

>
  Server Admin Password: **TestPa\$\$w0rd**

>  Location: **Select the region that is closest to your location**



Access the blade for the new **SQL Database** instance.

Record the **ADO.NET** **Connection** **String** for your SQL database,
and then replace the text **{your\_password\_here}** with the password
**TestPa\$\$w0rd**.



####Task 3:	Create a Storage instance

1.  View the list of Storage instances for your subscription.


Create a **Storage** instance by using the following details:


>  Name: **sp20532[*Your Name Here*]**

>
  Location: **Select the region that is closest to your location**

>
  Pricing Tier (Replication): **Locally Redundant (L LRS)**



Access the new **Storage** instance by using the Startboard.


Record the name and **Primary Connection String** and the **Primary
Access Key** for the Storage Account instance.



####Task 4:	Switch to the Azure Management Portal

Open the Azure Management Portal
([*https://manage.windowsazure.com*](https://manage.windowsazure.com)).



####Task 5:	Create a Service Bus namespace

1.  View the list of Service Bus namespaces for your subscription.


Create a **Service Bus** namespace in your subscription by using the
following details:



>  Namespace Name: **sp20532[Your Name]**

>
  Region: **Select the region that is closest to you**



Record the **SAS** **Connection** **String** for the Service Bus
 namespace.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have created
 services that will be used for your deployed web application.



##Exercise 2:	Managing Configuration Settings for a Cloud Web Application



###Scenario



In this exercise, you will:



Update the Cloud Service configuration settings.


Update the Web.config release transformation file.



The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:



1 . Modify the cloud configuration settings.


2 . Modify the Web.config transformation file for the administration
project.


3 . Modify the app.config file for the worker role project.


4 . Modify the Web.config transformation file for the web role project.



####Task 1:	Modify the cloud configuration settings

1.  Open the **Contoso.Events** solution from the following location:



>  File location: **Allfiles
> (F):\\Mod13\\Labfiles\\Starter\\Contoso.Events**



Open the **Contoso.Events.Worker** role’s property page.


Go to the **Settings** section of the property page.


Find the **Service Bus** connection string setting with the name
**Microsoft.ServiceBus.ConnectionString** and update it for all
configurations with the following values:



>  Type: **String**

>
  Value: [**The SAS Connection String recorded in the previous
 Task]**
 
For the **Cloud** service configuration, locate the
**Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.ConnectionString** settings, and then 
set the connection string by using the **Storage Account Name** and
**Primary** key recorded from the previous task.



View the **Local** service configuration settings and ensure that the
 storage connection strings are using development storage.


Open the **Contoso.Events.Web** role’s property page.

Go to the **Settings** section of the property page.


For the **Cloud** service configuration, locate the
**Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.ConnectionString** settings, and then 
set the connection string by using the **Storage Account Name** and
**Primary** key recorded from the previous task.


View the **Local** service configuration settings and ensure that the
storage connection strings are using development storage.



####Task 2:	Modify the Web.config transformation file for the administration project

1.  Open the **Web.Debug.config** file in the **Contoso.Events.Web** project.


Update the **Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.ConnectionString**
appSetting’s value to use the **Primary Connection String** that was
recorded from the **Storage** account.

Update the **Microsoft.ServiceBus.ConnectionString** appSetting’s value
 to use the **SAS** **Connection String** that was recorded from the
**Service Bus** namespace.



Update the **EventsContextConnectionString** connection String entry to 
use the **ADO.NET** **Connection String** that was recorded from the
**SQL Database** instance.



####Task 3:	Modify the app.config file for the worker role project


1.  Open the **app.config** file in the **Contoso.Events.Worker** project.


Update the **EventsContextConnectionString** connectionString entry to
 use the **ADO.NET** **Connection String** that was recorded from the
**SQL Database** instance.



####Task 4:	Modify the Web.config transformation file for the web role project


1.  Open the **Web.Release.config** file in the **Contoso.Events.Web**
 project.


Update the **EventsContextConnectionString** connection String entry to
use the **ADO.NET** **Connection String** that was recorded from the
**SQL Database** instance.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have made changes 
to your web applications so that they use different settings and
 connection strings after they are deployed to the cloud.



##Exercise 3:	Deploying the Web Applications to Azure



###Scenario



In this exercise, you will:



Deploy a Cloud Service project to Azure.


Deploy an ASP.NET Web Application project to a Website.



The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:



1. Deploy the Cloud Service project to a Cloud Service production 
environment.


2. Deploy the ASP.NET Web Application project to a Website instance.


3. Verify that the application was successfully published.



####Task 1:	Deploy the Cloud Service project to a Cloud Service production environment

1.  Begin the **Publish Windows Azure Application** wizard for the
 **Contoso.Events.Cloud** project.



Create a new **Cloud Service** instance by using the following details:



>  Name: **cs20532[*Your Name*]**

>
  Region or Affinity Group: **Select the region that is closest to your
 location**



Publish the cloud service with the following values:



>  Environment: **Production**

>
  Build configuration: **Release**

>
  Service configuration: **Cloud**



####Task 2:	Deploy the ASP.NET Web Application project to a Website instance

1.  Using the Server Explorer, create a new **Website** by using the
 following details:



>  Web App Name: **ws20532[*Your Name*]**.

>
  Resource Group: **Select the Resource Group**.
>
  App Service Plan : **Select the App Service Plan**.

>
  Database server: **No database**



Begin the **Publish Web** wizard for the **Contoso.Events.Management**
project.


Publish the web application to the newly created Website instance by
 using the following name:



>  Name: **ws20532[*Your Name*]**



####Task 3:	Verify that the application was successfully published

1.  Verify that all the events are listed in the Administration web
 application.


Close Internet Explorer.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have deployed
 projects to both Websites and Cloud Services.



##Exercise 4:	Monitoring the Web Applications in Azure



###Scenario



In this exercise, you will:



View the trace output for a Website.



The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:



1. View streaming logs for the Administration application.



####Task 1:	View streaming logs for the Administration application

1.  In the Server Explorer, view the settings for the newly created
 Website instance with the following name:



>  Website name: **ws20532[*Your Name*]**



On the Website settings page, change the **Application Logging (File
System)** setting to **Verbose**, and then save the changes.


View the streaming logs for the Website.


Open the Website in Internet Explorer, and then verify that the log information is shown when navigating to a page.


Close the Internet Explorer and Contoso.Events – Visual Studio windows



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have viewed a live
stream of trace logs for a Website.


©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  The text in this
document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode),
additional terms may apply.  All other conte nt contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images,
etc.) are ***not*** included within the Creative Commons license grant. 
This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any 
intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use
 this document for your internal, reference purposes. 



This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in
this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may
change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are
for illustration only and are fictiti ous. No real association is
 intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied,
with respect to the information provided here.
